---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

# Gatsby Contribution Merge & Gatsby Maintainer: :pushpin:

This past week was very rewarding and exciting because my documentation contributions were officially merged:exclamation: It took a few days because the Gatsby maintainer that was reviewing the pull request I had submitted suggested for me to commit a few changes. My initial changes weren't passing all the required tests that the Gatsby team put in place; however, after a few commits, my changes were indeed passing all the necessary tests that they needed to in order to be merged into master. Before I knew it, my pull request was merged :trumpet:! Surprisingly, another exciting thing happened right after that-that I was not at all expecting which was that I was given an invitation to become a Gatsby maintainer :tada:. I was extremely stoked to have been granted the wonderful opportunity to become a Gatsby maintainer and immediately accepted it. It may not be a big deal to many, but to me it is because I have the utmost respect for the Gatsby team and for the incredible software product that they are most well known for which is Gatsby.js. I deeply appreciate all that they are doing for the open source community and would love the opportunity to be a maintainer and continue to help contribute to their project.

With my changes and pull request merged, I have been looking into other issues that I can pick and help contribute to. Many issues I have looked into are already taken, but I did see two that weren't or still need some other people to help contribute to. The first being this [TypeScript migration issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21995). The Gatsby team has been rewriting their core codebase in TypeScript and are looking for people to help them. They have been listing certain files and asking people to comment which ones they would like to jump into and add the proper typings. I really like this issue because it would massively help with getting more familiar with their codebase and also because it would be a coding contribution which would be fantastic for me since I absolutely love coding. The only caveat with this issue though, is that I don't know very much about TypeScript. Because I have little to no experience with TypeScript, it would also probably take longer for me to contribute since there would have to be a lot of learning on my end. I am not sure whether I would be able to produce the quality TypeScript code that they are looking for-for their codebase with barely any TypeScript experience.

Another issue that also interests me a lot is a Gatsby documentation issue that's concerned with their Node APIs docs. The [issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/12665) is asking for someone to add further context about each Node API such as the parameters it requires as well as give an example on how to use it. This is also another high impact issue, and I would very much like to work on it. The only thing holding me back is that because I don't have so much experience using these APIs, I am unsure if I would be able to provide the deep and intricate explanations and examples to these APIs that they are looking for. Nevertheless, I am strongly leaning towards this issue and will most likely select it as my next issue :heavy_check_mark:.

# Guest Speaker Vicky Brasseur Class Visit: :computer:
I appreciate Vicky Brasseur coming to visit our class and speaking in great detail about the history of open source development as well as how to contribute to free and open source software projects. Vicky Brasseur is very passionate about open source development, and I really like the fact that she talked a lot about the history of open source development and all the progress it has made over the years. It was quite refreshing to hear a different take on the history of open source development and its evolution over the past years. During her presentation, she was also strongly advocating for the notion that open source development should be for everyone and that she thinks that people will be more inclined to use products that are open source since there will be more transparency with it. I genuinely thought it was a unqiue take since I have never heard it before. She was arguing that open source need not be just for developers, but also for everyone and people whether or not they have a background in tech. Overall, I agree with her that open source development will continue to grow, become more popular, and evolve into more of a worldwide phenomenal. I think it's clear to see this as more and more companies are beginning to adopt more openness to the idea of open sourcing their software. Also, there seems to be a lot of open source projects emerging that also seem to have nothing related to coding which is also interesting and important to note as well.

# Code.gov U.S. Gov's Maintained Open Source Projects Analysis: :office:
Up until this point, I was not at all aware that the U.S. government had open source projects that they maintained. It actually turns out the U.S. government uses the Code.gov website as a way to promote good practices in code developmenet as well as provide tools and guidance to government agencies to help them implement the Federal Source Code Policy which is essentially a standard to achieve efficiency, transparency, and innovation through both reusable and open source software. I think the whole idea is very interesting and has the potential to be very effective.

In regards to issues, I have looked into about twenty of them and many of them seem to be very outdated and from many years ago. I took a look at the pull requests for the code-gov-api repo and there has only been one opened and merged pull request for 2020. Overall, that repo doesn't appear to be super active as well as some of the other repos that I looked into that are also associated with them. Along with this, many of the issues aren't super exciting. A few from the code-gov-api repo do appeal a little bit to me though simply because they are all related to backend development and require coding contributions to their api endpoints and requests. Unfortunately though, almost all of these issues are already taken.

Personally, I do really like the fact that the government has taken initiative and is making a stance in the open source world; however, I feel as though many of their repos do lack a lot of that attractiveness that is seen in many other open source repos and projects such as for example Gatsby.js. Also, the majority of their issues are from a few years ago and the activeness of these projects seems very low. Nevertheless, it is great to see that the government does support the open source ideology. I think it would help bring more people on board with the idea of developing open source software if they saw that the government is doing so, but unfortunately many don't know this or at least I don't think they do. I think the government could do a lot of great things with the open source platform that they have created, but there doesn't seem to be much lure or attraction to these open source projects that they have. Because of this, I don't think the government is having as much of the effect that they could be having within the open source community had their projects had some of these traits.

# 2019 Novel Coronavirus COVID-19 Data Repository Analysis: :bar_chart:
This data project is very interesting to me. On the news and in other media outlets, they just seem to be throwing so much data at audiences and sometimes people (or at least the ones I know) wonder how and where exactly they get all of this data. This repo interests me because they are thoroughly keeping track of tons of data that is related to the COVID-19 pandemic such as the amount of infected and recovered cases in countries all around the world. This repo is one example of the unqiue places in which you can find very well tracked COVID-19 related data. 

This is actually a project that I definitely might contribute to because I already have actually! I found a very simple issue that required a minor change to their dataset regarding an inaccurate number of recovered cases in Italy on February 23, 2020. I fixed the mistake and opened up a pull request. My only concern with this project though, is that they seem to be very slow in getting back to people's responses, questions, and pull requests. Many issues have unanswered questions and responses, and many pull requests stay open for months and weeks on end. Other than that, I think it's a great project to contribute to because all of this data is indeed very significant, and this is one possible way in which people can really contribute to the worldwide fight against COVID-19. Even though it may be something that may seem like it doesn't have a high impact, but I believe it does. This data is very essential and it's important to keep track of it very thoroughly as it can help countries make good and important critical decisions in this time of crisis. 

# Weekly Contributions: :pencil2:
This week I made a contribution to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus COVID-19 (2019-nCoV) Data Repository by Johns Hopkins CSSE. There was a minor data issue where there was an inaccurate amount of recovered cases in Italy on Febraury 23rd, 2020. I went to the exact csv file where the error was and corrected it to the right amount of recovered cases for that day in Italy.