---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

# Gatsby Chronicles:  
For this week in Gatsby, I began working on the second issue that I had chosen. To give a clear recap on what the issue was about, the issue was concerned with two dependency libraries that had outdated versions and that needed to be severely upgraded. The two dependency libraries were puppeteer and puppeteer-core. The puppeteer library is used for the gatsby-plugin-preload-fonts package within the Gatsby project. The other library is puppeteer-core and is used within the gatsby-transformer-screenshot package in the Gatsby project. This issue was originally raised because someone was having problems when running yarn install within the Gatsby project. It appears that he was having trouble running the command "yarn install" that might've been caused by puppeteer since that is where the installing seemed to stayed stuck at. Although he has since gotten the command to run successfully, someone opened up an issue because the puppeteer and puppeteer-core library versions used within the project are indeed outdated. It was possible that the error might've been caused by this. 

I decided to pick this issue up. I did a ton of research about the latest versions of puppeteer and puppeteer-core to see what changes have been implemented since version 1.20.0 for puppeteer and 2.1.0 for puppeteer-core. 1.20.0 and 2.1.0 are the current versions being used within the Gatsby project so I wanted to make sure that there wasn't any major changes from the latest versions that would break anything that was being used within the Gatsby project. I also looked into all the places where puppeteer and puppeteer-core are being used within the Gatsby project and there wasn't all that many places which is great. From my research, I discovered that the latest versions of puppeteer and puppeteer-core rely on all node versions from 10.18.1 and up. Fortunately, the Gatsby project currently supports all node versions from 10.13.0 and up so this means that there wouldn't be a conflict with node when upgrading the library versions.

Once I felt like I had done enough research, and seen that there most likely wouldn't be any conflicts when upgrading the two outdated library versions, I decided to proceed and upgrade them using yarn. I navigated to the two directories within the Gatsby project in which they are both being used and upgraded them. When upgrading puppeteer, I got an error that stated something along the lines such as "expected workspace package to exist for \rimraf\"". As a result of this, I had to do some extensive searches to see what this issue was concerned with and what was causing it. There weren't many results when I searched through google for this so it was pretty tough trying to figure this one out. After a lot of tweaks to my search query, I found out that this issue has not yet been handled in the most recent versions of  (I had one of the latest versions 1.22.0), but rather in earlier versions so I had to downgrade my current version of yarn.  For puppeteer-core, I also got a few tricky errors that took me a while to solve, none of which are all that rememberable to me at this point in time. I do recall having to fix something though relating to yarn's cache because of a fetching cache problem. 

Despite all of the hassles, I was eventually able to upgrade both versions of the libraries to their latest version with everything working successfully, and proceeded to push to my branch within our class fork of the Gatsby project. I created a pull request, gave a quick description of my changes, and linked it to the issue. Hopefully, my changes for this second task are merged very soon! 

# Thoughts on "Makers and Takers" by Dries Buytaert:
First off, I think this is a good read. I love the fact that he makes correlations to very essential and important economic concepts such as "game theory". Also, I really like how he expresses his thoughts and opinions with clear crisp clarity. I enjoy how he is very objective and really provides evidence to his arguments. He doesn't rush into his points, but rather really spends a lot of time actually educating the reader and giving tons of context before he makes his points.

In regards to things I agree with, I do agree with the fact that open source software is both a public and common good. It definitely is public simply because everyone can use it, and someone's usage of it also doesn't hinder someone else from using it. It also most definitely can be considered a common good too because if someone really enjoys the open source software product and the company that is open sourcing that software, then they most likely won't be using another company's product that may be somewhat similar, thus making the open source software rivalrous. I also do agree with his overall premise that something needs to be done in order to easily scale and sustain open source projects. As open source projects grow, I could totally imagine the complexity that it is to be able to maintain everything, cooperate, build trust, and continue to produce the best possible software. He's for open source software, and some might interpret some of his points such as placing restrictions on the model concerned with contributors "self-governing" the open source projects they are contributing to, or adding new licenses that offer a lot more protection against taker companies and create a more fair playing ground in limiting competitors from taking advantage of the open source software, as bad ideas since they "seem to go away from the fundamentals of open source software", but I don't think any of these ideas are necessarily bad nor do I think he is going against the fundamentals of open source software, he is most definitely trying to just help the nature of open source become even better than what it already is! He never went against the idea of open source software or anything therof, but rather is just providing suggestions that will help make it easier to scale and sustain it when a projects get big because in reality everything he said about scaling open source software currently really is a huge headache and very true!

On the other hand though, I don't agree with his point (though he didin't really argue for it, he really just hinted at it) that traditionally, migrating from a model of self-governance, to privatization, and then ultimately centralization usually is the best option when it comes to mangaging certain stuff. He gives the example of trade routes/roads, and how initially roads/trade routes were self-governed by travelers and normal people, but how they weren't totally optimized or in the greatest conditions. He also mentions privatization and how private businesses took on maintaining the roads and though they did a good job they too didn't optimize the roads to the best possible conditions. He hints at the government (centralization) being able to do the best job and how through centralization the roads were able to really take off and expand. He connects this to open source because he hints that open source projects that are currently under the self-governing model should transition out and under that model to arguably centralization like models since there has been a wide history with things doing better under such a model. I disagree with this, because although centralization models may have a lot more money, power, and more resources to carry out certain tasks that doesn't mean that they are the best option. A centralization model that's under the government's control could be extremely slow as the government typically moves very slow, changes don't happen so often so things can get very old very quickly. This contrasts with a self-governing model where things can move extremely fast if someone see's a problem and they want to fix it they can, and they don't have to be restricted or held back to do that what it is that they want to fix or improve.

# Weekly Contributions:
This past week I made another contribution to the Gatsby project. The issue I decided to pick up was concerned with upgrading two outdated dependency libraries from an old outdated version to the new and latest versions. I upgraded the versions, made sure no major change from upgrading would break anything already within the Gatsby project using these two libraries, and tested everything to see if all was fine after upgrading.