---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Gatsby Chronicles & Issue Analysis:   

This past week I have done a lot research on a few particular Gatsby issues that I have been interested in. Last week I mentioned an issue in my blog that seemed interesting, but I had doubts about it. The [issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/12665) was concerned with helping the Gatsby team continue to flesh out all of their gatsby-node api function descriptions. The Gatsby team currently feels as though there is still a lot of confusion relating to their gatsby-node api functions. Because of this, they are looking for someone to go through all of the gastby-node api functions and add further context about each one and include important information about each function. This information includes what parameters the function is expecting to be passed into it as well as an example detailing how to actually use it. I was interested, but I had doubts simply for the fact that I personally didn't feel that I had the necessary experience with these api functions to actually be able to really flesh them out in a way where I could really help others comprehend it very well. Nevertheless, I still decided to attempt to see if I could do it. I didn't request to work on it because I like to work on the task locally first and get a sense of it to see if I can actually complete it before I notify the Gatsby team to see if I can work on it. I began working on it and for some of the api functions it is somewhat easy to identify the exact parameters and what exactly those parameters are supposed to be, but for others it is also not so easy to understand unless you have experience using them. For example, with the onCreateDevServer api function the parameter is very easy to identify, it's trivial to understand that the app parameter is the express app that's used to make requests to the server as well as run it, but for other ones such as the createPagesStatefully api function the parameters are not easy to identify, nor is it clear what those parameters are really supposed to be. Gatsby does provide a link alongisde these api functions to their location in the index.js file in their source code, but even there it's not super clear how everything works for that api function. As a result of this, I decided to not request to work on this issue simply because I feel that this issue would be a better fit for someone who has more experience using these apis.

Another issue that I looked into and actually decided to tackle was this [one](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/23421). This issue was concerned with two outdated versions for the dependency libraries called puppeteer and puppeteer-core within the Gatsby project. The person that opened up the issue is requesting that the versions for these two depencies be updated to the latest version because the version that is currently being used by the Gatsby team is version 1.20.0 for puppeteer and version 2.1.0 for puppeteer-core and these versions are outdated as the latest version for both seems to be 3.0.2. I thought this was a good issue to work on so I decided to do some research about the latest version of puppeteer and  see what changes have been made since version 1.20.0. Of course, within a very mature project such as Gatsby, you have to be very careful when updating packages from very outdated versions to the newest and latest versions because those new latest versions can have tons of large changes and possibly break a ton of stuff since the code that was implemented with the outdated version of the package may no longer work with the new and latest version. I began doing some research within the Gatsby project to see all the places where puppeteer is being used, and it appears that both puppeteer and puppeteer-core are only being used in a very select amount of places within the Gatsby project. I thought that was great because that potentially means that the risk of breaking a lot of stuff from updating the outdated version of the package to the latest version would be extremely minimal. Along with this, I also decided to go to the package's pages to see exactly what new features and changes have been made from version to version. Upon analyzing this information, I discovered that the new versions specifially those past 3.0.0 rely on Node 10.18.1+. The good news is that the Gatsby project currently supports all Node versions from 10.13.0 and up so there shouldn't be a conflict. I ultimately decided to work on this issue and will continue to do research with the intent of successfully upgrading the versions without any conflicting issues.

# Response to Tom Callaways's Blog Post Concerning Business Models in Open Source:
Tom Callaway's blog post is short and very straight to the point. In his blog post, he begins by listing out the different business models companies participating in the open source space have and how each model essentially works. Following from that, he mentions and makes the case that creating proprietary software and selling that software is a very straightforward business model which I do completely agree with. He utters that in this model the company simply makes software and just hires developers to both maintain and continue adding new features here and there to the already existing software. This is different compared to an open source business model where it is not just the hired developers who are maintaining and able to add new features to the software, but also the client, partners, and possibly even competitors. Tom continues to assert that because customers, partners, and even competitors are able to contribute to the actual software that this is even more beneficial and advantageous to the software than just having a select amount of hired developers solely work on the software and maintain it. He also argues that because clients have more control and transparency of the software that they using that they tend to be happier and more engaged with the company that has ownership of the software. 

I think his points are interesting, but I also think he is not taking into consideration any of the negatives that can possibly come with making a product open source. Yes, it is true that clients, partners, and competitors do have the ability to contribute and work on the software too, but one could most certainly make the case that this could be a bad thing for the company in some regards. First, with a developer team that has been hired, trained, and is much more familiar with the codebase one can make the case that the continued development and enchancement of the software will be much faster than having the product be open sourced because clients, partners, and competitors won't be as experienced with the code base that the hired team would be. The development process could be slower because there could be an extremely high learning curve for every client, partner, or competitor that wants to learn the inner workings of the software product and ultimately contribute. Slower development process could be bad depending on the product and where it is at currently. More may not always be better especially when it comes to software! Also, everyone that has been hired to work and maintain the software most likey has gone through some sort of screening/interview process by the company to verify whether or not they are a fit for the job. When you make a product open source and welcome people to come and contribute, odds are most of the time you won't really know who that person is that requested to help fix a particular issue with the software. Becasue of this, there is a lot of uncertainty concerning whether or not the person wanting to contribute has the appropriate experience, knowledge of the codebase, etc... If that person is inexperienced, it could slow down the development process, but maybe they might be very experienced, and actually do more than what was expected. 

Also, in regards to customer satisfaction, one could make the argument that having a product be open sourced doesn't necessarily make the client more happy with the product or the company, and that customer satisfaction is all relative and depends really on the product and what needs of the client it's fulfilling. A product could have everything already that a client might want and be perfect. It all really depends. All in all, I am not disagreeing with any of Tom's points, but I am just saying that arguments could also be made for the opposing side and that I think he should consider them because compelling arguments could be made from both sides!

# Would I Want to Work in a Company That Only Produces Open Source Software?
I am honestly not sure whether or not I would want to work in a company that only produces open source software. I have never worked in such a company nor do I have so much experience in the field of open source development so it is somewhat unfair for me to give my opinion when I haven't experienced it. I think there are tons of great arguments that could be made for both sides. One argument that could be made in favor of working for a company that only produces open source software is that the work would be a lot more distributed. More people working on all sorts of tasks could potentially mean more productivity. More things can get done, more problems are fixed, and more new helpful features are implemented. Another advantage would be if a tech savy client finds a bug or vulnerability, they would have the potential to fix it right away, and that would be great for the main team of developers working on the software because they don't have to stop working on the task that they are working on to fix what could be a random bug in production that might take time to reproduce and analyze. Along with these points, another one would be that the quality of the code has the potential to be so much better. With everything out in the open, people would arguably be more inclined to produce better code since anyone can see it. Also, there would be tons of eyes on the software, and that could mean more people being on the lookout to catch or improve something that could be even better than what it already is within the codebase. When a codebase has a lot of high quality code, that makes life easier on the developers since they don't have to struggle so much understanding what could be spaghetti code. Instead the code could be cleaner and better quality, thus allowing the developers to seamlessly navigate through the codebase and also produce better quality code. These are some of the things that make open source software development great. A company that's only producing open source software would most definiely have some of if not all of these traits going for it which would make it a very attractable place to work at for me!

# "Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?" Article Reponse:
This article is very interesting and has raised my awareness to a solution that I never even thought of before. There has been tons of discussion these past few years concerning the authenticity and security of the election system all across America. There have been many reports stating unusual activity, system glitches, and undesired behavior from many machines that are used for election related purposes. All of the software and hardware used in these election locations is not open source and many people have been questioning the security of the technology that is being used. Because of all of this, I think this article is very unique in how it proposes that there could be an open source solution on the way. There have been many debates whether or not open source software is more secure than non open source software. Like with many things related to open source software, there are great arguments for both sides, the security argument for open source software though has gained tons of traction, and it's becoming more and more believed that open source software is indeed more secure than software that is not open source. I think that is one great solution that could very much impose further security on the election system. I don't know if the open source solution proposed in the article, "The TrustTheVote Project" will ultimately succeed, but I do think the possibility of it doing so is extremely high as many people would love a system that is more open, has a lot of transparency to it, and puts a lot of the control in the hands of the people!

# Weekly Contributions: 
This past week I made two contributions. One contribution was made to one of my fellow classmate's weekly blog posts. I added a few grammar and verb tense fixes to Ks5810's week 11 blog post. Also, I made another contribution to the COVID-19 Data Repository where I fixed another data entry error in their data set.
